---

hruid: m_ct04_03
version: 3
language: en
title: "Sentiment analysis"
description: "Sentiment analysis"
keywords: [""]
educational_goals: [
    {source: Source, id: id},
    {source: Source2, id: id2}
]
copyright: dwengo
licence: dwengo
content_type: text/ct-schema
available: true
target_ages: [12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18]
difficulty: 3
return_value: {
    callback_url: callback-url-example,
    callback_schema: {
    att: test,
    att2: test2
    }
}
content_location: example-location
estimated_time: 1
skos_concepts: [
    '[http://ilearn.ilabt.imec.be/vocab/curr1/s-computers-en-systemen](http://ilearn.ilabt.imec.be/vocab/curr1/s-computers-en-systemen)'
]
teacher_exclusive: true
-----------------------

<context>
**Problem statement**<br>
The texts generated by ChatGPT (3.5) are not always correct. 
</div>
</context>
<decomposition>
**Decomposition**<br>
- How ChatGPT 3.5 works
    - 'Understanding' a prompt.
    - When a certain text is given to ChatGPT, i.e., a prompt, it will *calculate* which text is most likely to follow.
    - ChatGPT works in a dialogue format.
    - ChatGPT is very fast.
- Training ChatGPT 3.5
    - Starting from a large language model trained on texts up to early 2021
        - Massive amounts of digital texts, e.g., Wikipedia, Reddit, websites, and English books 
    - Learning to handle dialogue
        - Original dataset mixed with conversations created by humans
    - Detecting characteristics of human responses. 
    - Learning to generate 'more human-like' responses.
    - Minimizing the likelihood that ChatGPT would generate racist, sexist, or hate speech.
- ChatGPT 3.5 has no access to the internet.
- Simple interface
- Developers use user input to improve the system.
</decomposition>
<patternRecognition>
**Pattern recognition**<br>
- A large language model works based on *Natural Language Processing* (NLP); it will understand and generate natural language based on patterns.
- Applications such as automatic translation and search engines, like ChatGPT, are based on large language models.
</patternRecognition>
<abstraction>
**Abstraction**<br>
Words, phrases, sentences, paragraphs are represented as *vectors* that consider 'co-occurrence', meaning, etc., but are thus also removed from their context. When a certain text is given to ChatGPT 3.5, i.e., a prompt, it will *calculate* which text is most likely to follow. *It therefore does not take truthfulness into account*.
</abstraction>
<algorithms>
**Algorithmic thinking**<br>
- ChatGPT 3.5 is derived from a large language model GPT-3.5 (Generative Pre-trained Transformer), a model that learned from examples (*supervised learning*). For the training of GPT 3.5, machine learning algorithms were used, including NLP. 
- Humans ranked texts generated by ChatGPT 3.5 from less good to best. Based on that, an *unsupervised* scoring system was developed. 
- Using that scoring system, ChatGPT 3.5 was trained via *reinforcement learning* to respond in a 'more human' way to prompts.
- Additional training to avoid racism, sexism, and hate speech.<br>
</algorithms>
